docs: Add documentation about access logs PoC (#894)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/contributor/pocs/otlp-logs.md

* After it is allocated, the utilized storage space of the persistent queue never shrinks again. This is not a problem as long as a dedicated PVC is used for the queue, but makes it less suitable to be stored on the node's host file system.
* Not using a batch processor in the agent might have a negative performance impact.

## Istio Access Logs

### Scope and Goals

Istio comes with extension providers to configure its telemetry. The [EnvoyOpenTelemetryLogProvider](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-ExtensionProvider-EnvoyOpenTelemetryLogProvider) allows to send access logs to an OTLP service. This part of the PoC should compare this extension provider in combination with the OpenTelemetry Collector to the [EnvoyFileAccessLogProvider](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-ExtensionProvider-EnvoyFileAccessLogProvider), which is currently used by Kyma's [Istio module](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio).

### Setup for Istio Access Logs

To enable OpenTelemetry based access logs in Istio, execute the following steps:

> 1. Deploy log-gateway as described above.

Author: Linked to the right setup section. I think extracting the setup part does not make so much sense. The setup for the first and second PoC are different. The third part can re-use the second setup.

> 2. Add the following envoyOtelAls extension provider to the extensionProviders list of the service mesh config by editing the `istio` ConfigMap in the `istio-system` namespace:

Author: Plural is correct.

    "resource.attributes.k8s@pod@uid": "3a1dd812-b83e-4b16-8ac6-bbda64ee1f6e",
    "log.attributes.http@response@status_code": "200",
    "log.attributes.response_flags": "-",
    "log.attributes.network@protocol@name": "HTTP/2",
    "log.attributes.upstream_cluster": "outbound|8080||otel-currencyservice.demo.svc.cluster.local",
    "resource.attributes.pod-template-hash": "5454f58ff6",
    "log.attributes.url@path": "/oteldemo.CurrencyService/Convert",
    "log.attributes.response_code_details": "via_upstream",
    "resource.attributes.opentelemetry@io/name": "otel-checkoutservice",
    "log.attributes.upstream_transport_failure_reason": "-"
  },
  "fields": {
    "observedTime": [
      "1970-01-01T00:00:00.000Z"
    ],
    "time": [
      "2024-03-14T14:43:03.130026Z"
    ]
  },
  "sort": [
    1710427383130026000
  ]
}
```

The configured labels from the extension provider configuration result in log attributes of the OpenTelemetry log records. The log gateway enriches the log records with resource attributes to fulfill the semantic conventions. The source pod is identified by the k8sattributes processor using the client IP address.

> The OpenTelemetry log specification contains fields for a trceId and spanId. The extension provider does not allow to fill these fields but assign them to a log attribute. This limitation can be corrected by a transform processor in the log gateway. An [issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49911) has been created for the Istio project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry log specification contains fields for a traceId and spanId. The extension provider does not allow to fill these fields but assign them to a log attribute. This limitation can be corrected by a transform processor in the log gateway. An [issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/49911) has been created for the Istio project.
```

> The OpenTelemetry [Semantic Conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/) do not explicitly cover access logs yet. The shown example pick up attribute names from related areas like HTTP and URL where it made sense.

Author: Hope that is more clear now.

> We can conclude that the EnvoyOpenTelemetryLogProvider allows to emit access logs to an OTLP endpoint with similar properties that the currently used JSON based format in combination with Fluent Bit provides. Emitting access logs using the OTLP protocol has the advantage that regular Istio sidecar logs can be collected in the same way as regular application logs and are more easily available for troubleshooting if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We conclude that the EnvoyOpenTelemetryLogProvider supports emitting access logs to an OTLP endpoint with similar properties that the currently used JSON-based format provides in combination with Fluent Bit. Emitting access logs using the OTLP protocol has the advantage that regular Istio sidecar logs can be collected in the same way as regular application logs and are more easily available for troubleshooting if necessary.
```
